Let's recap.
External styling,
you could style light on.
You wrote it, you style it.
Style deep styling Shadow DOM,
doesn't work.
Global classes, doesn't work
unless you go the ugly route and
put these style sheets inside your web,
it's fine, it's fine, it works.
It's web technology all it does is
make a request and it brings back CSS.
And if your CSS has already cached,
the hit is zero.
So if you've already requested the
tailwind CSS file in the web component,
it would be zero.
And then global classes, okay yeah,
so we can make that work.
Inheritable styles?
Yes, they pass through CSS variables.
Yes, that's a great way.
Predefined themes.
Yes, that's a great way to style.
Named Shadow Parts.
Yes, that's a great way.
And then CSS pseudo-elements, host,
host context, slotted define.
These are also kind of cool
tools you can use to style
your web components from the inside.
Or even the outside I guess in the case
of defined and stuff like that.
So cool, interesting.
I'm curious to see how y'all will use it,
but
it's just a new stuff we have to learn and
now it's our job to know, so.
>> Here's a question.
Could you use an attribute selector
to select a part by custom property?
>> An attribute selector,
like, let me find my part one.
Like custom alert.
Like part, button or something.
Or like.
>> No, if it was a theme, for instance,
a specific theme, or it was a part
like they used like the alert,
the morn and then the part button.
>> Yeah, okay yeah.
Yeah, okay.
Theme yeah, you can totally chain
this stuff, this should work.
I wrote it, I hope it does.
So let's just change it to,
This should work, I didn't do this right.
Live coding equals warn.
Let's see, come on coop in,
Let me refresh my code pen.
Weird, it doesn't seem to work a day, I
probably messed something up, let me see.
What are you?
Roll icon warning and
we'll just do icon warning.
There we go.
Yeah so
you can make this side the left side
of the selector as complex as you want.
So what can be kind of
cool is you could kind
of change the color of whatever you want.
If you have multiple alerts or
something like that ,you could kind of
style them differently if you needed to.
So on a single page or
throughout the entire system, so.
You had a question.
>> Yeah based on your
experience using web parts,
would you say the majority of
people do implement the Shadow DOM?
Kind of that's the default that most
people use when they're creating web
components?
>> They code stuff in there?
>> Mm-hm.
>> Yeah, I think the style tags in your
web components are pretty normal.
Where it's moving to, and
this is kind of the future state and
maybe this is just a great
place to talk about it.
This is not fun, right?
This is not good.
We don't like this.
What would be a good, let me go to
a complex example and then all.
Let me fork it, right?
For forking pen, here we go, okay?
So I'm gonna just delete all this,
we don't care.
All right, so
this would be our default custom alert.
So where it's kind of
heading is this idea where,
what if I could take all this stuff?
This is so much stuff.
We hate this stuff, right?
And what if I could put it in
a CSS file somewhere, right?
And this won't work cuz it doesn't
know about the stylesheet yet.
But the cool thing is,
you can import sheet from,
this is a new CSS feature.
I can import a style sheet
from a style sheet as,
I think it's as styles,
as style I think is what it is.
And then, okay?
Unexpected identifier,
maybe it wants this, let's see, okay.
>> Sheet as style or sheet style from.
>> Import sheet as, as style.
>> Yeah.
>> Let me see.
I thought I knew how to do this,
I have a blog post on it.
Let me go to my blog,
everyone likes their own blog.
Everyone references their own blog, right?
So I did this whole thing
where I made CSS modules.
You're probably familiar with
something like emotion or
CSS modules or style components or
something that generates
a robot class on your elements and
IDs and stuff like that.
Shadow DOM is interesting because
you don't need that Robot class,
that Robot class is just for
scoping the style to that element, right?
So you don't need it.
That's what Shadow DOM
solve that same problem.
But there is this idea of,
what if you wanted
these CSS Robot classes as type CSS?
We blew it, okay, wow, okay.
So that's what it is.
So we can import these styles as style,
and
then we can actually tell our
document to adopt that style sheet.
And that is all done in JavaScript,
it's called CSS module scripts to not
be confused with CSS module,
it is very confusing.
But you basically import this and
you create an adopted style sheet.
This produces a constructed
style sheet and
then you adopt
the constructed style sheet.
I know, it just rolls off the tongue.
So let me go steal that from myself.
But I went through and
I was just kinda maybe I could make
these like Robot classes up and do it.
Cuz I actually kinda like it sometimes or
if I'm not using web components if I
wanted to use Robot classes
without build tools.
And I did it, so that was kind of fun.
But let's go back to the place
where we were importing stuff.
Where's our, here.
Okay, assert type equals CSS.
Gosh I was way off, okay?
So nothing's dying,
everyone's happy, okay?
And so, we can document DOP did style
sheets equals sheet, right?
We're basically pushing the sheet
into the adopted style sheets.
And you will see here,
I think I can do this.
Let's do it in the regular console.
It didn't do anything yet.
It was very mad at me, let's see here.
But you can do a document
adopted stylesheets, right?
Let me go into the code pin actual and
now I'll try that.
No, it's a proxy, it's an array
of zero and so nothing happened.
That's unexpected.
Well, let me see if this works.
So what you can do in your element,
in your constructor you can do this dot.
Let's see this is a lit element.
Okay, this dot shadowroute or
whatever hopefully you have,
I think you get that for free inlet.
You have to create it in
a vanilla web component.
This dash shadowRoot.adopted style sheets.
So you can basically, no.
Okay, so
it doesn't have a shadow root yet, weird.
I'm gonna have to look into this.
This is maybe a bad place
to refine code here,
but there is a way to
basically you link the style
sheets into the web component from here.
I'm just missing what exactly it is.
So, let me work on that in a break and
we'll figure out what happens and
then we'll reset like nothing happened.
No one's gonna know.
[LAUGH] But so this would be
the kind of modern way to do it.
Again, it's not supported in every
browser though and so that's like,
you're stuck with link tags
until that it gets resolved.
So but it's pretty cool tech when it
works, not how I'm doing it right now.
So,okay, questions or try renderRoot
is what somebody is saying in the chat.
Thank you.
this.renderRoot, this would
be beautiful if it worked.
I think what's happening though
is my browser is not ingesting
the style sheet correctly.
>> Is any of this styling issues,
can you get around any of
these by using the libraries
that make web components easier later?
I forget the other ones but.
>> Yes.
>> This at all or no.
>> Yeah, they super help with it.
We'll get into it but that's actually a
really great place cuz we can l get out of
this disaster I'm creating.
[LAUGH] Because it's pretty easy, so
I'm gonna delete all this
stuff I was attempting here.
And what lit offers is,
I think I showed you this HTML tag
template or you probably saw it.
It looks a little bit like JSX.
It's a little weird, but it's basically
a template literal, the backticks.
And you can write
JavaScript inside of there.
But we have HTML here, but
lit offers CSS as well.
So lit has a static, I think it's styles.
And then we can return CSS backtick,
backtick.
And now we can just relink
our CSS back into here.
And let's see if that works.
I'm expecting that to work and
I don't know that,
I wonder if it's not static get.
That's what I'm thinking, right?
There goes, hey, it's static get.
So lit has this styles method and
then it also can return.
And then the CSS template literal,
which turns that into a style
tag kind of behind the scenes.
But the way you're authoring,
it is a little more like a motion or
something like that.
So kind of in a standard
React component kind of way.
>> Maybe superfluous, but is it possible?
Have you seen people either importing the
template, literal string or other ways so
that developers can get the nice
syntax highlighting and
pretty printing and
formatting in some other file?
Is there?
>> Yeah.
>> Any practice from that?
>> Right, so there are Webpack
vacations I think that you can do.
But you know how we are trying,
we're attempting so
successfully to do import sheet, [LAUGH]
from some stylesheet, some CSS Cert.
And then type CSS I think
is what we're doing.
So that's CSS modules.
There is a way to do.
You can import JSON from some
JSON file and assert type JSON.
So that can be handy.
And these are native ways.
You can do this Webpack and
whatever, figure that out.
But these would be native ways,
but you could there's
also talk about importing some
template from some HTML as HTML.
I don't think this is out
in any browsers yet, but
it's I think actively being discussed and
specked out.
So I think it's real close.
This whole assert type equals is
sort of just to allow us to inject
whatever we want, so.
So that's on its way.
It is not here yet that I know of,
but that is kind of the future.
So your web component may
look more like just importing
some things in and
get really succinct as it goes forward.